# CSC3510-Spring-2024

This document serves as both the course's syllabus and its main web
page.

## About the Professor

Professor Perry Kivolowitz has retired from full time teaching after 19
years (ten at UW-Madison and nine-and-counting at Carthage College). He
continues to teach two highly specialized courses: CSC4730 - Operating
Systems and CSC3510 - Computer Organization.

In addition to his years in academia, Professor Kivolowitz enjoyed a
more than 40 year career as an entrepreneur and inventor mostly in the
field of visual effects for motion pictures and television. He has been
awarded with two Emmy Awards and an Academy Award for his work.

Finally, Professor Kivolowitz has had a passion for Computer Science for
50 years, long enough to posses lived experience from the late dawn /
early adolescence of computing.

## Course Overview and Introduction

## Course Objectives and Outcomes

## Meetings and Office Hours

| Days | Times | Room |
| ---- | ----- | ---- |
| TR | 2:20 PM to 4:00 PM | [ZOOM](<https://www.google.com/url?q=https://carthage-edu.zoom.us/j/94497021922?pwd%3DeWc4U0lSb0FWSElsVUt4cTQ4YkNEdz09&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1696453887001340&usg=AOvVaw2Btyz8fsOmxG_t4SDxm4Gy>) |

All office hours are held via [ZOOM](
<https://www.google.com/url?q=https://carthage-edu.zoom.us/j/94497021922?pwd%3DeWc4U0lSb0FWSElsVUt4cTQ4YkNEdz09&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1696453887001340&usg=AOvVaw2Btyz8fsOmxG_t4SDxm4GyThis>).

This link will remain valid all term.

| Day | Times |
| --- | ----- |
| M | 11 AM to 12 PM |
| T | 11 AM to 12 PM |
| R | 7 PM to 9 PM |
| F | 12 PM to 1 PM |

Office hours may be recorded if the content is deemed by me to be of
general use to the class.

### Meetings / Questions prior to project due dates

With some exceptions, to be decided by me, help on projects will not be
available within 24 hours of a project's due date. This prohibition is
imposed to encourage good working habits including but not limited to
starting work early / working steadily. This is not intended punitively.

## Texts

Primary: [OSTEP](<https://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/>) This book is
free.

Ancillary:

1. Required: Advanced Programming in the UNIX environment, third
   edition. I will refer to this as Stevens and Rago. If you have any
   questions about the Unix / Linux environment and APIs, consult this
   book before approaching me.

2. [xv6
   risc-v](<https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.S081/2020/xv6/book-riscv-rev1.pdf>)
   This book is free.

## Readings

There are two types of readings in this class.

1. Assigned readings will come from OSTEP.

2. Unassigned readings will come from the two ancillary texts. Being
unassigned, you will **not** be told when to do them. Instead, review
the table of contents in each of the two ancillary sources to get a
general idea of that they contain. Then, later in the course, when you
have a question, review the ancillary texts for details.

You expected to have consulted the texts before approaching me with
questions. If I should answer something to the effect that the answer is
in the book, you are expected to explain to me what you read and
articulate what you found unclear. This step is take to encourage good
working habits on your part and is not punitive.

### Topics Covered

The following are the topics which we can expect to be covered:

### Environment

## Attendance

Attendance will be taken at nearly every class. The only exceptions will
be when I am so excited to get down to business, that I forget to take
it.

You get 6 free absences. After that each absence will remove 1 percent
from your aggregate score at the end of the term. All absences are
treated equally. That is, there are no "excused" absences.

The number of free absences equates to three weeks of missed class time
so it is unlikely you'll exceed this and incur a penalty.

Should a long-term absence due to uncontrollable circumstances become
necessary, please speak to me as soon as possible.

## Arriving Late

Once attendance has been taken, anyone arriving after then will be
counted as absent. Generally, attendance will end between five and ten
minutes after the official start of class.

## Leaving Early

No, your coach cannot force you to leave class early to make practice.
This comes directly from the current Athletic Director. If you are
friends with persons arriving at practice before 4 PM, they do not have
afternoon classes or are choosing to put their extra-curricular sports
ahead of the **REST OF THEIR LIVES**.

## Essay

## Projects

Below is a listing of 10 "projects" of which only 8 are *truly*
projects. One is a tutorial and another is just to provide proof you're
ready to tackle the two kernel projects.

The *Weight* column provides a weighting of the project within the
Project Grading Component. It suggests my anticipation of the *relative*
difficulty of each project compared to the others.

The *OSTEP* column indicates how the projects correspond to course
material. The indicated chapters will be most helpful.

The *S&R* column indicates which chapters of Stevens and Rago can be
helpful.

The warmups each contribute one point to your final grade.

The projects together contribute 92 percent of your final grade.

| # | Project       | Space  | Weight  | OSTEP      | S&R |
| - | -------       | -----  | ------: | -----      | --- |

### Project Partners

### Project Requirements

* Requirements are spelled out in each specification.

* Any deviation from the specification likely results in penalties.

* Generating even a single warning during building your own code will
  result in a 10 percent penalty. I will build on MacOS.

* Commenting is required. Failure to adequately comment is a mandatory 5
  percent penalty.

### No Late work

**Late work (factoring in one free grace day) will not be accepted.**

To state this differently, if an assignment is due on day *n*, you have
until the end of day *n + 1* to turn it in. After that, it will not be
accepted.

I award partial credit for substantial but incomplete work. This is
unlike the real world where incomplete work earns termination of your
employment. Hand in what you have... it's better than a zero.

## Grading Components

| Gradable Component | Weight  | Notes   |
| ------------------ | ------: | -----   |

There is very little likelihood a curve will be applied in computing
your final grade.

## Accommodations

There are no exams in this course and projects already include a grace
day. Therefore, no significant accommodations ought to be necessary but
present your papers to me at the start of the semester anyway. We'll
discuss what should be done.

## Health and Counseling Center

The Health and Counseling Center (HCC) addresses student physical,
mental, and emotional well-being. All services, provided by experienced
professionals, are free and confidential to currently enrolled,
full-time undergraduate students. Students must call or visit the HCC to
schedule an appointment. Health services are available by walk-in or
appointment from 8:30am - 3:30pm. Counseling walk-in sessions are
available Monday through Friday from 11:30am to 1:00pm, last appointment
begins around 12:30pm, first-come first-seen. TWC, first floor(behind
mailboxes)| 262-551-5710 | Website | Mon-Fri 8:30am to 1pm and 2pm to
4:00pm.

## Learning Accessibility Services

Carthage College strives to make all learning experiences as accessible
as possible. If you anticipate or experience academic barriers due to
your disability (including mental health, learning disorders, and
chronic medical conditions), please let me know immediately so we can
discuss options privately.  To establish reasonable accommodations, you
must register with Warren Wolchuk in Learning Accessibility Services
[wwolchuk@carthage.edu](wwolchuk@carthage.edu).

## Academic Honesty

All work will be examined for originality. Should I find evidence of
copied work, all parties shall receive a grade of zero. If any
individuals are found to have copied a second time, the individuals will
be reported to the Provost's office for discipline and will receive a
zero for the assignment. Should an individual be associated with a third
instance, in addition to a second trip to the Provost, the individual
shall receive an F in the course.

The decision of the instructor is final.

## Bonus Materials

## General statement about "help"

Apart from lecture, I will not "just give you the answer." Rather, you
must demonstrate that you have exhausted the means available to you to
learn on your own. This is not punitive. This will be a requirement for
your future. You'll get in the habit now. This may be a lasting and
meaningful "gift" to you from me.

### Jishnu Mukerjee, Senior Systems Architect at Hewlett-Packard

When I was an undergraduate, Jishnu Mukerjee was the graduate student
who was in charge our department's
[PDP-11/60](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PDP-11>). It ran an early
version of Unix, V6 to be exact... sound familiar?

The first time I had a question, I asked Jishnu and he answered it.

The second time I had a question, I asked Jishnu and he answered it.

The third time I had a question, I asked Jishnu and he handed me a print
out of the entire OS. He said, "All your answers are in here."

It was the greatest gift he could possibly give and I am thankful to him
to this day.
